# ga_portfolio_optimisation
The purpose of this project was to use Genetic Algorithms (GAs) to optimize a portfolio consisting of 10 different companies from 5 different sectors (2 companies from each sector). Along the line, we also generate random portfolios, a balanced portfolio, and different weightings of risk and return to compare to the performance of the portfolio generated by the GA.

This portfolio was constructed and optimized in accordance with the Markowitz Model, meaning that we either target the maximum return for a given level of risk or the minimum risk for a given level of return.

Regarding the GA, we used the Sharpe Ratio as the fitness function to maximize the return. Additionally, we also used the parameters described by Lin & Gen (2007) in their research paper as parametets for the GA function.

## Results
In each of the cases, it was observed that the volatility of the selections was always greater than the return. However, we maintain that the performance of the GA was the best one because it offered the lowest volatility for a given return.

## Conclusion
We conclude that we a need a wider variety of companies from different sectors to eliminate unsystematic risk.

## Technologies and Libraries Used
<ul>
  <li>RStudio</li>
  <li>R Markdown</li>
  <li><a href="https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/GA/index.html">The GA Package</a></li>
  <li><a href="https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/quantmod/index.html">The quantmod Package</a></li>
  <li><a href="https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/xts/index.html">The xts Package</a></li>
</ul>

## References
Lin, C.M. and Gen, M., 2007. An effective decision-based genetic algorithm approach to multi-objective
portfolio optimization problem. <i>Applied mathematical sciences</i>, 1(5), pp.201-210.
